# Azure based Identity Managment #
For  Azure based commercial solutions we assume the use of Azure Active Directory (AAD). At its core AAD provides an environment for Identity and Access management for Web  and cloud based SaaS applications. From a developer perspective it is a provider of the well known Internet standards like e.g. OAuth 2. If you are a developer and used to these standards, AAD will be quite straightforward for you. See [this](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/documentation/articles/active-directory-token-and-claims/ "AAD Token Types") article to understand more details of the token types supported. We will not further dive into this basic aspect of AAD.
## Specific Scope of this Hackfest ##
This project deals with the requirement, that certain components need LDAP and/or Kerberos support for their authentication and authorization. AAD has (at the time of this writing in preview) premium feature called *Azure Active Directory Domain Services* (AAD-DS) (see [here](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/documentation/articles/active-directory-ds-overview/ "AAD Domain Services"). As the name indicates this is "classic" Active Directory as a service in the cloud. As such it offers LDAP and Kerberos as we need in this project. It is very likely that many enterprise scenarios in the future - when they go to the cloud - will also use AAD-DS.
### AAD-DS Setup ###
The setup and configration is not in the scope of this project as it is assumed to be provided by the customer. We just provision it in order to have a test and development environment without going into further details. [This](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/documentation/articles/active-directory-ds-getting-started/ "AAD-DS setup step-by-step") 